AUTHORS
-------

Pierre DAVID (pda@masi.ibp.fr or pda@frunip62.bitnet)
Janick TAILLANDIER

You are free to use or distribute these programs as long as
you keep this note

These programs are provided as is.  They are in no way
supported by us.


PRESENTATION
------------

These programs provide you with a complete development
system for the Saturn processor (used on the HP-71, HP-28,
HP-48 among others).  It includes an assembler, a linker for
separate assembly, and various utilities to generate message
tables for the HP-71 as well as download programs to the
HP-71 via HP-IL or RS-232.


HISTORY
-------

It was developped for the HP-71 in order for us to produce
more easily the JPC Rom (PPC Paris Rom) for the HP-71.  The
final Rom module was 45 KB (executable) for a total of 1.5
MB source files.

The speed was one of the main design objectives.

These programs were written in C for the HP Integral PC
(under HP-UX) in 1986 and have been adaptated for PC
compatibles (Microsoft C 4.0 in 1987).

It was also used as the final stage of a simple C compiler
for the HP-71.


HP-71 DEPENDENCIES
------------------

This development system is fully compatible with the
assembler described in the HP-71 Internal Design
Specifications (Volumes I or IV).  The opcode syntax is the
one used by HP :  it seems crazy to invent a new one, just
to confuse everyone!

Some macros (LEX, BIN, FORTH, TOKEN...)  are specific to the
HP-71, but you are free not to use them.

You may also want to write specific HP-48 macros to generate
specific objects (it would be nice if HP give us the syntax
they use).

Some opcodes used in newer machines (28, 48...)  are not
present in the HP-71.  Those opcodes (but PC=(A) and RSI)
are not in our opcode table, but could be easily added if
they are known.

The linker preloads a special file (/usr/local/lib/hp71.ep)
containing all HP-71 operating system entry points.  Do not
use any name contained in this file, or remove the loading
of this file.

In summary, HP-71 dependencies should not be a problem.
However if you want to use new opcodes, you will have to add
them.  Please, post your modifications.


CONTENTS
--------

Makefile
	The global Makefile (HP-UX) to generate all programs.

assembler
	Source code for aas (the assembler).  Some files are
	shared between assembler, linker and dump (common.h,
	err.h), some are shared between assembler and linker
	(exp.c, mdep.c).
	Contains a manual page in French.

linker
	Source code for ald (the linker).
	Contains a manual page in French.

dump
	Source code for adp (the file dumper, used for
	debugging).
	Contains a manual page in French.

cpy
	Source code for downloading files from a PC to an
	HP-71 using HP-IL Link card or RS-232.  This should
	now superseded for HP-48 by Kermit.

load
	Source code for acp, utility for copying an
	executable file generated by the linker to a LIF
	disk (to be read by an HP-71 with HP-9114).

equ
	Source for all HP-71 operating system entry points.

jmpdoc
	Some thoughts about adding a new generic branch macro.
	In French. Garbage.

msg
	Source code for amg (HP-71 message table generator).
	Contains a manual page in French.

doc
	Various documentations.


PORTING
-------

If you are using HP-UX, just type make, then make install.

If you are using another flavor of Unix, the Makefile should
work. We think there are no special system dependencies (it was
successfully compiled on Suns 3 and 4 with SunOS 4 and a Vax
under BSD 4.3).

If you are using PC compatibles, we cannot do anything for you.
The Makefiles will probably be difficult to use...

If you are using an Amiga, a Mac or anything else, good work !



Have fun !

Pierre DAVID & Janick TAILLANDIER (July 1st, 1990)
